In 2016 a doctor diagnosed me with what he described as "a working diagnosis". Specifically, "a mental illness".
 
I had been working in an intense and toxic environment, travelling loads and getting minimal sleep.
 
My partner and I had also just welcomed a baby. He rarely slept.
 
Do I have a mental illness now?
 
I don't know. I'm not a doctor.

I DO know I don't currently have the symptoms that the doctor used in his diagnosis.

More importantly...
 
I BELIEVE we are all on the mental health continuum - and where we are can move.
 
I also believe that we are ALL 1 or 2 life events away from a mental health challenge (aka potential diagnosis).
 
The point for me was not whether the label fit.
 
The point was I needed help.
 
We all need help from time-to-time.
 
What stopped me getting help earlier?
 
It wasn't a fear of stigma of others. Rather my own self-stigma.
 
Judgement from others never compared to my own self-judgement.
 
I've been fortunate to have many supporting people in my life. 
 
Including some amazing managers. Jane Fraser by far the standout, providing flawless leadership, time off, and a listening ear.
 
Like I said I'm no doctor. And many people find real comfort in a diagnosis.
 
I have a passion for psychology and philosophy.
 
When I was "diagnosed" I read ferociously and studied myself with curiosity.
 
Since 2016, I've learnt:
 
🎯 I'm most productive and creative at 4-6am. And I do my worst work at 9-11pm.
 
🎯 Insufficient sleep plus 10+ hour work days are a receipe for an inner decline.
 
🎯 Working as an employee in workplaces that breached my values impacted my well-being. I was reminded of this fact earlier in the year.
 
🎯 Money is not a motivator for me. Sure big bonuses are nice, but not at the cost of mental health.
 
🎯 Helping people, leaders and organisations who genuinely want to get better elevates my inner world. After all, none of us are perfect.
 
 
In my experience, there is no right or wrong when it comes to optimal mental health. 
 
It's about finding what works for you and protecting it.
 
I often think - what are the things that I will likely regret the most in life... and for me it would be "not asking for help if I had another decline".

Tomorrow is #ruokday.

Before you ask someone "are you ok?", be sure to ask yourself "am I ok?"

And it's OK not to be OK.  
